We talked about the dataset menu,
now it's time to take a closer look at what we can do with the report in Power BI service.
So I am still in the dataset menu and I will now change to our tests report that we created,
so I click right here and now this looks different,
right? Now the interface is darker and this doesn't look the way it looked like in the dataset.
Well the reason is simple, we simply are in the reading mode now,
if we click right here onto edit report, then we are back
and then we can change that report and make it smaller maybe, like this and add a third visualization.
Let's maybe add a line chart then, like this,
like this, right
and again maybe this time at the female population as a value and for the different years as an axis,
like this. We got that, so we can click right here.
So this is what we can do right here,
as we said we can use the dataset menu to create new reports and we can then work on these new reports
just the way we're used to it in Power BI desktop.
The important difference right here is that in Power BI Desktop, we were really able to create this initial
dataset,
so the base for this report and this is something, well you shouldn't do that in Power BI Service or you
can't even do that to the amount you're able to do it in Power BI Desktop.
So this is why you have to make sure that you create your datasets in Power BI Desktop, as soon as they
are ready and as soon as you created your report also, you can simply import it to Power BI service and then
work on your report. I'll create new reports,
that's how this kind of work, so this connection between this dataset menu and this reports menu.
However we are still in our report right here
and I think the options here are clear for you because those are basically the same that we have in
Power BI Desktop,
the only thing that we didn't have a look at so far is the reading view. Now the reading view can be found right
here.
If we click here,
yes we want to save the changes of course, then it changes to the reading view,
you can close that. Now in the reading view,
we have different options first up here.
Let's take a look at those options.
So the first option is the file option,
again we can save it but we can also print the report or download the report and we can publish it to
the web.
Now we will have a look at some of those options in the sharing part of this module,
for now we just have to know that we can do something with that in that menu,
let's close that,
whoops, sorry.
Now we are here.
So in the view section, let's click that, well we have that fit to page, fit to width, you know that
so we don't have to use that, added report is clear, explore
is the same logic we have,
we don't have any hierarchies right here, so we cannot change anything right there.
We have that refresh button, maybe let's click that, nothing works,
if we go back to the edit report view maybe and click onto refresh right here, let's see what happens
then,
nothing, doesn't seem to work at the moment.
We will talk about that later.
So let's go back to the reading view
and now we have that pin live page option,
let's click that simply right and see what happens.
Now we can decide if we want to create a dashboard with those visuals,
that's interesting, right?
So let's create a new dashboard and name it test-dashboard, like this and press pin live. Let's
close that, we know that and now we can see the dashboard right here.
So this is the next step.
We used the dataset to create our new report and then we can pin that whole report to a new dashboard
but what sense would that make,
why do we need that report then?
Well the reason is that you don't have to pin the anti-visualization,
you can also pin single visualizations,
so if you would have a report with multiple pages, then you can simply select only the visualizations
that you want to have in your dashboard.
So if you have three pages with 10 visualizations, you might only want to have three visualizations
in your dashboard actually and that's why this pinning feature and by that, the creating dashboard
feature is really great.
Let's try that with our chart right here.
If you look right here, you'll find this pin symbol and now you don't pin the live page, you pin the
visualizations,
so if you click right here, we are again asked where we want to pin that to
and I will select a new dashboard again right here
and now let's call this test-dashboard-visual, like this
and if you press pin right now and close that, then we can see that we created a second dashboard, now only with
that single visualization.
We will of course look at that dashboard in a few minutes.
So this is it. In the reading view, we can decide what pages we want to pin,
we can also do that in the edit view of course.
So this pin function allows us to decide what our dashboards should look like,
now this is good.
So this was the report we created,
let's now take a quick look at our initial report that we created in Power BI Desktop, right here
and of course you can click through the pages, like this, like that and like that and we could pin a visual.
Let's maybe also pin one visual right here, for instance this one,
so we simply click right here, press pin visual and now we pin it to an existing dashboard,
so to our empty dashboard of the project that was automatically created when we use the getData function
to import the data from Power BI Desktop to Power BI service.
Now let's press pin right here and see what happens,
close it, nothing changed apparently
but it should have changed because this treemap chart should now be in our dashboard of our report.
Now this is the basic overview of the report section,
now we talked about dashboards a lot,
I think it's time to look at that dashboards finally.
Let's do that in the next video.